---
type: slides
---

# Sharing Altair Visualizations

Notes: In this module we will learn how we can share our visualizations
with others, both online and offline.

---

## Charts are easily saved as HTML files

``` python
import altair as alt
from vega_datasets import data

cars = data.cars.url
chart = alt.Chart(cars).mark_circle().encode(
    alt.X('Horsepower:Q'),
    alt.Y('Miles_per_Gallon:Q'))

chart.save('cars-scatterplot.html')
```

Notes: The easiest way to save Altair charts is as HTML document via the
`save` method as we have done in this slide. This file an either be
incorporated in a web page or sent to anyone via e.g. email.

When they open the file in a web browser they will see the
visualization, including any interactivity you have used!

This is all you need to know for sharing your visualizations with others
outside the Jupyter Notebook, but read on for more technical details
about how this work and how you can save to other formats than HTML.

---

## How are Altair visualization rendered?

-   Altair does not create images to represent charts
-   Instead if create Vega-Lite code
-   Your browser knows how to render Vega-Lite code as graphics

Notes: It might surprise you that it is easier to save as an HTML
document than an image file in PNG or JPG format. After all, plots are
images aren’t they? To understand this, let’s look into how Altair
visualizations are constructed.

In the beginning we mentioned that Altair uses the JavaScript library
Vega-Lite to generate its visualizations. This is great because we get
access to many interactive features that build on web technologies such
as JavaScript and HTML, and our visualizations can easily be
incorporated in online contexts.

This also means that what Altair does under the hood is not to generate
an image of the visualization, but the Vega-Lite code required to
construct the chart.

This is similar to how graphical elements work on webpages. All the
buttons, banners, etc that you see when you go to a web page are not
images but HTML code that your browser can convert into a graphical
elements such as buttons.

Vega-Lite code is rendered in a similar way. Modern browsers know how to
draw graphical elements from the Vega-Lite code, so we never need to
create any images.

So what does this Vega-Lite code look like?

---

## The Vega-Lite JSON specification for charts

``` python
print(chart.to_json())
```

``` json
{
  "config": {
    "view": {
      "continuousHeight": 300,
      "continuousWidth": 400
    }
  },
  "data": {
    "url": "https://vega.github.io/vega-datasets/data/cars.json"
  },
  "encoding": {
    "x": {
      "field": "Horsepower",
      "type": "quantitative"
    },
    "y": {
      "field": "Miles_per_Gallon",
      "type": "quantitative"
    }
  },
  "mark": "circle"
}
```

[Open the Chart in the Vega
Editor](https://vega.github.io/editor/#/url/vega-lite/N4IgJAzgxgFgpgWwIYgFwhgF0wBwqgegIDc4BzJAOjIEtMYBXAI0poHsDp5kTykBaADZ04JACyUAHJQCMlAFYQ2AOxAAaEFBUAzGmTShiNOAHcDmlZhrKGbBhAAScPVjQBmAAweNW5VZt2EADqNAAm9GhiXgC+0RqhSJgoqKAMAE6CaBjYeIS8FNR0jCzs+QIJSRBwmBAEFUgEUEhpEApKqnEgcMpaodb6KSAAHua6cIKhWQ5sLXA4bCZwaeogmACeOHBZAI4MSH50iTSkIJ1ro8YTWQCyNIJwEAD6m2mPAOJIgoIqK+ubO3sDkkrCdYhpkGkANZZKA0NJQe6nIA)

Notes: Instead of creating a new programming language to store its code,
Vega-Lite uses the established JSON file format.

JSON is already widely used on the web as a storage format for text
data, so this approach means that Vega-Lite does not need to reinvent
the wheel. Instead, there are rules for which words are allows to appear
in the JSON file for it to be valid Vega-Lite code, which is referred to
as the “specification” (or “spec” for short).

You can see an example of how this looks for an Altair visualization by
using the `to_json` method as we have done in this slide. You can see
that the words are the same we use in Altair, but the format of the JSON
specification is a bit more verbose than the Altair syntax.

You can paste this JSON directly into Vega-Lite online editor and you
will see that it renders correctly. We included a link for this in the
slide that you can try.

This is the same that happens if we click the “Open in Vega Editor”
entry in the three dot action button that is automatically included in
each Altair chart.

If you look at the HTML file we saved in the previous step you will see
that this JSON spec is included together with some additional code that
tells your browser to use Vega-Lite’s web libraries to render this JSON
spec.

---

## Charts can be rendered offline

-   [Link to install the offline Vega-Lite extension in
    JupyterLab](https://altair-viz.github.io/user_guide/display_frontends.html#displaying-in-jupyterlab)

-   Code to include a fallback image representation of your chart for
    offline rendering:

        alt.renderers.enable('mimetype')

Notes: Since displaying the JSON spec correctly depends on a the
Vega-Lite web libraries, this means that our charts will only render if
we have an internet connection.

If you are working offline and want to render charts in JupyterLab,
there are a few different options.

If you want interactive chart elements to work, you need to install a
JupyterLab extension that downloads the the Vega-Lite rendering library
to your machine. [The steps for installing this extension are outlined
in the Altair
documentation](https://altair-viz.github.io/user_guide/display_frontends.html#displaying-in-jupyterlab)

If you are OK with seeing a static version of your charts when you are
offline, you could instruct Altair to use the Vega-Lite libraries only
if there is an active internet connection and otherwise use and image
for the plot. To do this, you can include the code from this slide on
top of your notebook, just after your import statements.

---

## What if we want to save our charts as images instead?

-   The three dots action buttong can be used to save images manually
-   `altair_saver` can be used to save charts programatically
    -   [Instructions for how to install and work with Altair saver can
        be found here](https://github.com/altair-viz/altair_saver/).

Notes: If we want to save a chart as a PNG image file (or an SVG vector
text file similar to a PDF), we can use the three dot action button as
we saw in the very first module of this course. When we are clicking the
“Save as PNG” entry in this menu, the browser converts the Vega-Lite
spec into a PNG image that is downloaded to our computer.

If we want to save an image as a PNG programatically we need to use a
helper package called `altair_saver`. This package let’s Altair access
the save functionality of the browser in a similar way as when you click
the thee dot action button.

[Instructions for how to install and work with Altair saver can be found
here](https://github.com/altair-viz/altair_saver/). After it is
installed, you can save as PNG by typing `chart.save('my-chart.png')`.

---

## Working with large datasets

``` python
print(chart.to_json())
```

``` json
{
  "config": {
    "view": {
      "continuousHeight": 300,
      "continuousWidth": 400
    }
  },
  "data": {
    "url": "https://vega.github.io/vega-datasets/data/cars.json"
  },
  "encoding": {
    "x": {
      "field": "Horsepower",
      "type": "quantitative"
    },
    "y": {
      "field": "Miles_per_Gallon",
      "type": "quantitative"
    }
  },
  "mark": "circle"
}
```

[View spec with the full data instead of the URL in the Vega
Editor](https://vega.github.io/editor/#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)

Notes: Now that we know how Altair creates charts, we can also
understand why there is an issue with large datasets.

You can see the JSON chart spec printed in this slide again. Note that
the data here is just a string value pointing to a URL because we used
`data.cars.url` to create the chart.

If we instead of a URL would use a pandas dataframe (e.g. `data.cars()`)
**all** the data would be included in the chart specification. In the
JSON format, this is almost 4500 lines of code! There is not enough room
to show that in this slide, but you can click the link under the code to
see an example of what it would look like.

---

## Including large data sets in chart

``` python
# Disable the warning
alt.data_transformers.disable_max_rows()
```

[More details about how to work with large datasets can be found in the
docs](https://altair-viz.github.io/user_guide/faq.html#maxrowserror-how-can-i-plot-large-datasets)

Notes: Including all the data is great for reproducibility and it works
well with small to medium sized data. However, with large datasets the
size of each chart would become really big, and with many charts in the
same notebook the overall file size would be huge.

To avoid this happening by mistake Altair shows a warning when you try
to plot a dataset with more than 5000 rows. If you are sure you want to
plot a dataframe with more rows than that, you can disable the warning
with the line of code on the top of this slide.

However, your plots would still be very big. If you would like to avoid
creating big plots, you can use a URL as we did in the first slide and
in module three.

An URL is not always an option, and it is not convenient if you need to
do some data wrangling with pandas first.

---

## Working with large datasets without including all the data in the chart

``` python
# Use the data server
alt.data_transformers.enable('data_server')
# Optional to use with the data transformer to show plots without Python running
alt.renderers.enable('mimetype')
```

Notes: To work around this issue, the Altair developers have created a
helper package called `altair_server`, which you can activate on the top
of your notebook with the line of code in this slide.

The Altair server works by linking the chart to the dataframe via an
active Python process. This mean that as long as you are running Python
you can see the chart. When you stop Python, e.g. by shutting down your
notebook, Altair can no longer see the data and no plots will be shown
the next time you open the notebook, until you rerun your code.

If you want a static version of the plots to be always visible in the
notebook you can include the second line in this slide, which is the
same we used a few slides ago to include the PNG fallback when the main
chart is not accessible.

---

# Let’s apply what we learned

Notes: <br>
